website/docs/component-testing/Vue.md, before:

---
id: vue
title: Vue.js
---

[Vue.js](https://vuejs.org/) is an approachable, performant and versatile framework for building web user interfaces. You can test Vue.js components directly in a real browser using WebdriverIO and its [browser runner](/docs/runner#browser-runner).

## Setup

To setup WebdriverIO within your Vue.js project, follow the [instructions](/docs/component-testing#set-up) in our component testing docs. Make sure to select `vue` as preset within your runner options, e.g.:

```js
// wdio.conf.js
export const config = {
    // ...
    runner: ['browser', {
        preset: 'vue'
    }],
    // ...
}
```

:::info

If you are already using [Vite](https://vitejs.dev/) as development server you can also just re-use your configuration in `vite.config.ts` within your WebdriverIO config. For more information, see `viteConfig` in [runner options](/docs/runner#runner-options).

:::

The Vue preset requires `@vitejs/plugin-vue` to be installed. Also we recommend using [Testing Library](https://testing-library.com/) for rendering the component into the test page. Therefor you'll need to install the following additional dependencies:

```sh npm2yarn
npm install --save-dev @testing-library/vue @vitejs/plugin-vue
```

You can then start the tests by running:

```sh
npx wdio run ./wdio.conf.js
```

## Writing Tests

Given you have the following Vue.js component:

```tsx title="./components/Component.vue"
<template>
    <div>
        <p>Times clicked: {{ count }}</p>
        <button @click="increment">increment</button>
    </div>
</template>

<script>
export default {
    data: () => ({
        count: 0,
    }),

    methods: {
        increment() {
            this.count++
        },
    },
}
</script>
```

In your test use the `render` method from `@testing-library/vue` to attach the component to the test page. To interact with the component we recommend to use WebdriverIO commands as they behave more close to actual user interactions, e.g.:

```ts title="vue.test.js"
import { $, expect } from '@wdio/globals'
import { render } from '@testing-library/vue'
import Component from './components/Component.vue'

describe('Vue Component Testing', () => {
    it('increments value on click', async () => {
        // The render method returns a collection of utilities to query your component.
        const { getByText } = render(Component)

        // getByText returns the first matching node for the provided text, and
        // throws an error if no elements match or if more than one match is found.
        getByText('Times clicked: 0')

        const button = await $(getByText('increment'))

        // Dispatch a native click event to our button element.
        await button.click()
        await button.click()

        getByText('Times clicked: 2') // assert with Testing Library
        await expect($('p=Times clicked: 2')).toExist() // assert with WebdriverIO
    })
})
```

You can find a full example of a WebdriverIO component test suite for Vue.js in our [example repository](https://github.com/webdriverio/component-testing-examples/tree/main/vue-typescript-vite).

Commit message:

mention nuxt support in docs

website/docs/component-testing/Vue.md, after:

---
id: vue
title: Vue.js
---

[Vue.js](https://vuejs.org/) is an approachable, performant and versatile framework for building web user interfaces. You can test Vue.js components directly in a real browser using WebdriverIO and its [browser runner](/docs/runner#browser-runner).

## Setup

To setup WebdriverIO within your Vue.js project, follow the [instructions](/docs/component-testing#set-up) in our component testing docs. Make sure to select `vue` as preset within your runner options, e.g.:

```js
// wdio.conf.js
export const config = {
    // ...
    runner: ['browser', {
        preset: 'vue'
    }],
    // ...
}
```

:::info

If you are already using [Vite](https://vitejs.dev/) as development server you can also just re-use your configuration in `vite.config.ts` within your WebdriverIO config. For more information, see `viteConfig` in [runner options](/docs/runner#runner-options).

:::

:::info

If you are using [Nuxt](https://nuxt.com/) WebdriverIO will automatically enable the [auto-import](https://nuxt.com/docs/guide/concepts/auto-imports) feature.

:::

The Vue preset requires `@vitejs/plugin-vue` to be installed. Also we recommend using [Testing Library](https://testing-library.com/) for rendering the component into the test page. Therefor you'll need to install the following additional dependencies:

```sh npm2yarn
npm install --save-dev @testing-library/vue @vitejs/plugin-vue
```

You can then start the tests by running:

```sh
npx wdio run ./wdio.conf.js
```

## Writing Tests

Given you have the following Vue.js component:

```tsx title="./components/Component.vue"
<template>
    <div>
        <p>Times clicked: {{ count }}</p>
        <button @click="increment">increment</button>
    </div>
</template>

<script>
export default {
    data: () => ({
        count: 0,
    }),

    methods: {
        increment() {
            this.count++
        },
    },
}
</script>
```

In your test use the `render` method from `@testing-library/vue` to attach the component to the test page. To interact with the component we recommend to use WebdriverIO commands as they behave more close to actual user interactions, e.g.:

```ts title="vue.test.js"
import { $, expect } from '@wdio/globals'
import { render } from '@testing-library/vue'
import Component from './components/Component.vue'

describe('Vue Component Testing', () => {
    it('increments value on click', async () => {
        // The render method returns a collection of utilities to query your component.
        const { getByText } = render(Component)

        // getByText returns the first matching node for the provided text, and
        // throws an error if no elements match or if more than one match is found.
        getByText('Times clicked: 0')

        const button = await $(getByText('increment'))

        // Dispatch a native click event to our button element.
        await button.click()
        await button.click()

        getByText('Times clicked: 2') // assert with Testing Library
        await expect($('p=Times clicked: 2')).toExist() // assert with WebdriverIO
    })
})
```

You can find a full example of a WebdriverIO component test suite for Vue.js in our [example repository](https://github.com/webdriverio/component-testing-examples/tree/main/vue-typescript-vite).
