website/docs/Capabilities.md, before:

---
id: capabilities
title: Capabilities
---

A capability is a definition for a remote interface. It helps WebdriverIO to understand in which browser or mobile environment you like to run your tests on. Capabilities are less crucial when developing tests locally as you run it on one remote interface most of the time but becomes more important when running a large set of integration tests in CI/CD.

:::info

The format of a capability object is well defined by the [WebDriver specification](https://w3c.github.io/webdriver/#capabilities). The WebdriverIO testrunner will fail early if user defined capabilities do not adhere to that specification.

:::

## Custom Capabilities

While the amount of fixed defined capabilities is verry low, everyone can provide and accept custom capabilities that are specific to the automation driver or remote interface:

### Browser Specific Capability Extensions

- `goog:chromeOptions`: [Chromedriver](https://chromedriver.chromium.org/capabilities) extensions, only applicable for testing in Chrome
- `moz:firefoxOptions`: [Geckodriver](https://firefox-source-docs.mozilla.org/testing/geckodriver/Capabilities.html) extensions, only applicable for testing in Firefox
- `ms:edgeOptions`: [EdgeOptions](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/webdriver-chromium/capabilities-edge-options) for specifying the environment when using EdgeDriver for testing Chromium Edge

### Cloud Vendor Capability Extensions

- `sauce:options`: [Sauce Labs](https://docs.saucelabs.com/dev/test-configuration-options/#w3c-webdriver-browser-capabilities--optional)
- `bstack:options`: [BrowserStack](https://www.browserstack.com/docs/automate/selenium/organize-tests)
- `tb:options`: [TestingBot](https://testingbot.com/support/other/test-options)
- and many more...

### Automation Engine Capability Extensions

- `appium:xxx`: [Appium](https://appium.github.io/appium.io/docs/en/writing-running-appium/caps/)
- `selenoid:xxx`: [Selenoid](https://github.com/aerokube/selenoid/blob/master/docs/special-capabilities.adoc)
- and many more...

### WebdriverIO Capabilities to manage browser driver options

WebdriverIO manages installing and running browser driver for you. WebdriverIO uses a custom capability that allows you to pass in parameters to the driver.

#### Common Driver Options

While all driver offer different parameters for configuration, there are some common ones that WebdriverIO understand and uses for setting up your driver or browser:

##### `cacheDir`

The path to the root of the cache directory. This directory is used to store all drivers that are downloaded when attempting to start a session.

Type: `string`<br />
Default: `process.env.WEBDRIVER_CACHE_DIR || os.tmpdir()`

##### `binary`

Path to a custom driver binary. If set WebdriverIO won't attempt to download a driver but will use the one provided by this path. Make sure the driver is compatible with the driver you are using.

Type: `string`

#### Browser Specific Driver Options

In order to propagate options to the driver you can use the following custom capabilities:

- Chrome: `wdio:chromedriverOptions`
- Firefox: `wdio:geckodriverOptions`
- Microsoft Egde: `wdio:edgedriverOptions`
- Safari: `wdio:safaridriverOptions`

<Tabs
  defaultValue="chrome"
  values={[
    {label: 'wdio:chromedriverOptions', value: 'chrome'},
    {label: 'wdio:geckodriverOptions', value: 'firefox'},
    {label: 'wdio:edgedriverOptions', value: 'msedge'},
    {label: 'wdio:safaridriverOptions', value: 'safari'},
  ]
}>
<TabItem value="chrome">

##### adbPort
The port on which the ADB driver should run.

Example: `9515`

Type: `number`

##### urlBase
Base URL path prefix for commands, e.g. `wd/url`.

Example: `/`

Type: `string`

##### logPath
Write server log to file instead of stderr, increases log level to `INFO`

Type: `string`

##### logLevel
Set log level. Possible options `ALL`, `DEBUG`, `INFO`, `WARNING`, `SEVERE`, `OFF`.

Type: `string`

##### verbose
Log verbosely (equivalent to `--log-level=ALL`)

Type: `boolean`

##### silent
Log nothing (equivalent to `--log-level=OFF`)

Type: `boolean`

##### appendLog
Append log file instead of rewriting.

Type: `boolean`

##### replayable
Log verbosely and don't truncate long strings so that the log can be replayed (experimental).

Type: `boolean`

##### readableTimestamp
Add readable timestamps to log.

Type: `boolean`

##### enableChromeLogs
Show logs from the browser (overrides other logging options).

Type: `boolean`

##### bidiMapperPath
Custom bidi mapper path.

Type: `string`

##### allowedIps
Comma-separated allowlist of remote IP addresses which are allowed to connect to EdgeDriver.

Type: `string[]`<br />
Default: `['']`

##### allowedOrigins
Comma-separated allowlist of request origins which are allowed to connect to EdgeDriver. Using `*` to allow any host origin is dangerous!

Type: `string[]`<br />
Default: `['*']`

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="firefox">

See all Geckodriver options in the official [driver package](https://github.com/webdriverio-community/node-geckodriver#options).

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="msedge">

See all Edgedriver options in the official [driver package](https://github.com/webdriverio-community/node-edgedriver#options).

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="safari">

See all Safaridriver options in the official [driver package](https://github.com/webdriverio-community/node-safaridriver#options).

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Special Capabilities for Specific Use Cases

This is a list of examples showing which capabilities need to be applied to achieve a certain use case.

### Run Browser Headless

Running a headless browser means to run a browser instance without window or UI. This is mostly used within CI/CD environments where no display is used. To run a browser in headless mode, apply the following capabilities:

<Tabs
  defaultValue="chrome"
  values={[
    {label: 'Chrome', value: 'chrome'},
    {label: 'Firefox', value: 'firefox'},
    {label: 'Microsoft Edge', value: 'msedge'},
    {label: 'Safari', value: 'safari'},
  ]
}>
<TabItem value="chrome">

```ts
{
    browserName: 'chrome',
    'goog:chromeOptions': {
        args: ['headless', 'disable-gpu']
    }
}
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="firefox">

```ts
    browserName: 'firefox',
    'moz:firefoxOptions': {
        args: ['-headless']
    }
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="msedge">

```ts
    browserName: 'msedge',
    'ms:edgeOptions': {
        args: ['--headless']
    }
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="safari">

It seems that Safari [doesn't support](https://discussions.apple.com/thread/251837694) running in headless mode.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Automate Different Browser Channels

If you like to test a browser version that is not yet released as stable, e.g. Chrome Canary, you can do so by setting capabilities and pointing to the browser you like to start, e.g.:

<Tabs
  defaultValue="chrome"
  values={[
    {label: 'Chrome', value: 'chrome'},
    {label: 'Firefox', value: 'firefox'},
    {label: 'Microsoft Edge', value: 'msedge'},
    {label: 'Safari', value: 'safari'},
  ]
}>
<TabItem value="chrome">

When testing on Chrome, WebdriverIO will automatically download the desired browser version and driver for you based on the defined `browserVersion`, e.g.:

```ts
{
    browserName: 'chrome',
    browserVersion: '116' // or '116.0.5845.96', 'stable', 'dev', 'canary', 'beta'
}
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="firefox">

When testing on Firefox, make sure you have the desired browser version installed on your machine. You can point WebdriverIO to the browser to execute via:

```ts
    browserName: 'firefox',
    'moz:firefoxOptions': {
        bin: '/Applications/Firefox\ Nightly.app/Contents/MacOS/firefox'
    }
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="msedge">

When testing on Micrsoft Edge, make sure you have the desired browser version installed on your machine. You can point WebdriverIO to the browser to execute via:

```ts
    browserName: 'msedge',
    'ms:edgeOptions': {
        bin: '/Applications/Microsoft\ Edge\ Canary.app/Contents/MacOS/Microsoft\ Edge\ Canary'
    }
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="safari">

When testing on Safari, make sure you have the [Safari Technology Preview](https://developer.apple.com/safari/technology-preview/) installed on your machine. You can point WebdriverIO to that version via:

```ts
    browserName: 'safari technology preview'
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

Commit message:

(@wdio/utils): support setup of Firefox browser through @puppeteer/browser (#10995)
* (@wdio/utils): support setup of Firefox browser through @puppeteer/browser

* fix unit test

* remove console.log

* update docs

* adopt after rebase

* "latest" is not a valid geckodriver version

* no driver download if binary is provided

* only apply binary option if set

* do the same for edge

website/docs/Capabilities.md, after:

---
id: capabilities
title: Capabilities
---

A capability is a definition for a remote interface. It helps WebdriverIO to understand in which browser or mobile environment you like to run your tests on. Capabilities are less crucial when developing tests locally as you run it on one remote interface most of the time but becomes more important when running a large set of integration tests in CI/CD.

:::info

The format of a capability object is well defined by the [WebDriver specification](https://w3c.github.io/webdriver/#capabilities). The WebdriverIO testrunner will fail early if user defined capabilities do not adhere to that specification.

:::

## Custom Capabilities

While the amount of fixed defined capabilities is verry low, everyone can provide and accept custom capabilities that are specific to the automation driver or remote interface:

### Browser Specific Capability Extensions

- `goog:chromeOptions`: [Chromedriver](https://chromedriver.chromium.org/capabilities) extensions, only applicable for testing in Chrome
- `moz:firefoxOptions`: [Geckodriver](https://firefox-source-docs.mozilla.org/testing/geckodriver/Capabilities.html) extensions, only applicable for testing in Firefox
- `ms:edgeOptions`: [EdgeOptions](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/webdriver-chromium/capabilities-edge-options) for specifying the environment when using EdgeDriver for testing Chromium Edge

### Cloud Vendor Capability Extensions

- `sauce:options`: [Sauce Labs](https://docs.saucelabs.com/dev/test-configuration-options/#w3c-webdriver-browser-capabilities--optional)
- `bstack:options`: [BrowserStack](https://www.browserstack.com/docs/automate/selenium/organize-tests)
- `tb:options`: [TestingBot](https://testingbot.com/support/other/test-options)
- and many more...

### Automation Engine Capability Extensions

- `appium:xxx`: [Appium](https://appium.github.io/appium.io/docs/en/writing-running-appium/caps/)
- `selenoid:xxx`: [Selenoid](https://github.com/aerokube/selenoid/blob/master/docs/special-capabilities.adoc)
- and many more...

### WebdriverIO Capabilities to manage browser driver options

WebdriverIO manages installing and running browser driver for you. WebdriverIO uses a custom capability that allows you to pass in parameters to the driver.

#### Common Driver Options

While all driver offer different parameters for configuration, there are some common ones that WebdriverIO understand and uses for setting up your driver or browser:

##### `cacheDir`

The path to the root of the cache directory. This directory is used to store all drivers that are downloaded when attempting to start a session.

Type: `string`<br />
Default: `process.env.WEBDRIVER_CACHE_DIR || os.tmpdir()`

##### `binary`

Path to a custom driver binary. If set WebdriverIO won't attempt to download a driver but will use the one provided by this path. Make sure the driver is compatible with the driver you are using.

Type: `string`

#### Browser Specific Driver Options

In order to propagate options to the driver you can use the following custom capabilities:

- Chrome: `wdio:chromedriverOptions`
- Firefox: `wdio:geckodriverOptions`
- Microsoft Egde: `wdio:edgedriverOptions`
- Safari: `wdio:safaridriverOptions`

<Tabs
  defaultValue="chrome"
  values={[
    {label: 'wdio:chromedriverOptions', value: 'chrome'},
    {label: 'wdio:geckodriverOptions', value: 'firefox'},
    {label: 'wdio:edgedriverOptions', value: 'msedge'},
    {label: 'wdio:safaridriverOptions', value: 'safari'},
  ]
}>
<TabItem value="chrome">

##### adbPort
The port on which the ADB driver should run.

Example: `9515`

Type: `number`

##### urlBase
Base URL path prefix for commands, e.g. `wd/url`.

Example: `/`

Type: `string`

##### logPath
Write server log to file instead of stderr, increases log level to `INFO`

Type: `string`

##### logLevel
Set log level. Possible options `ALL`, `DEBUG`, `INFO`, `WARNING`, `SEVERE`, `OFF`.

Type: `string`

##### verbose
Log verbosely (equivalent to `--log-level=ALL`)

Type: `boolean`

##### silent
Log nothing (equivalent to `--log-level=OFF`)

Type: `boolean`

##### appendLog
Append log file instead of rewriting.

Type: `boolean`

##### replayable
Log verbosely and don't truncate long strings so that the log can be replayed (experimental).

Type: `boolean`

##### readableTimestamp
Add readable timestamps to log.

Type: `boolean`

##### enableChromeLogs
Show logs from the browser (overrides other logging options).

Type: `boolean`

##### bidiMapperPath
Custom bidi mapper path.

Type: `string`

##### allowedIps
Comma-separated allowlist of remote IP addresses which are allowed to connect to EdgeDriver.

Type: `string[]`<br />
Default: `['']`

##### allowedOrigins
Comma-separated allowlist of request origins which are allowed to connect to EdgeDriver. Using `*` to allow any host origin is dangerous!

Type: `string[]`<br />
Default: `['*']`

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="firefox">

See all Geckodriver options in the official [driver package](https://github.com/webdriverio-community/node-geckodriver#options).

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="msedge">

See all Edgedriver options in the official [driver package](https://github.com/webdriverio-community/node-edgedriver#options).

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="safari">

See all Safaridriver options in the official [driver package](https://github.com/webdriverio-community/node-safaridriver#options).

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Special Capabilities for Specific Use Cases

This is a list of examples showing which capabilities need to be applied to achieve a certain use case.

### Run Browser Headless

Running a headless browser means to run a browser instance without window or UI. This is mostly used within CI/CD environments where no display is used. To run a browser in headless mode, apply the following capabilities:

<Tabs
  defaultValue="chrome"
  values={[
    {label: 'Chrome', value: 'chrome'},
    {label: 'Firefox', value: 'firefox'},
    {label: 'Microsoft Edge', value: 'msedge'},
    {label: 'Safari', value: 'safari'},
  ]
}>
<TabItem value="chrome">

```ts
{
    browserName: 'chrome',
    'goog:chromeOptions': {
        args: ['headless', 'disable-gpu']
    }
}
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="firefox">

```ts
    browserName: 'firefox',
    'moz:firefoxOptions': {
        args: ['-headless']
    }
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="msedge">

```ts
    browserName: 'msedge',
    'ms:edgeOptions': {
        args: ['--headless']
    }
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="safari">

It seems that Safari [doesn't support](https://discussions.apple.com/thread/251837694) running in headless mode.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Automate Different Browser Channels

If you like to test a browser version that is not yet released as stable, e.g. Chrome Canary, you can do so by setting capabilities and pointing to the browser you like to start, e.g.:

<Tabs
  defaultValue="chrome"
  values={[
    {label: 'Chrome', value: 'chrome'},
    {label: 'Firefox', value: 'firefox'},
    {label: 'Microsoft Edge', value: 'msedge'},
    {label: 'Safari', value: 'safari'},
  ]
}>
<TabItem value="chrome">

When testing on Chrome, WebdriverIO will automatically download the desired browser version and driver for you based on the defined `browserVersion`, e.g.:

```ts
{
    browserName: 'chrome',
    browserVersion: '116' // or '116.0.5845.96', 'stable', 'dev', 'canary', 'beta'
}
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="firefox">

When testing on Firefox, you can let WebdriverIO setup Firefox Nightly for you by providing `latest` as `browserVersion`:

```ts
    browserName: 'firefox',
    browserVersion: 'latest'
```

If you like to test a manually downloaded version you can provide a binary path to the browser via:

```ts
    browserName: 'firefox',
    'moz:firefoxOptions': {
        bin: '/Applications/Firefox\ Nightly.app/Contents/MacOS/firefox'
    }
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="msedge">

When testing on Micrsoft Edge, make sure you have the desired browser version installed on your machine. You can point WebdriverIO to the browser to execute via:

```ts
    browserName: 'msedge',
    'ms:edgeOptions': {
        bin: '/Applications/Microsoft\ Edge\ Canary.app/Contents/MacOS/Microsoft\ Edge\ Canary'
    }
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="safari">

When testing on Safari, make sure you have the [Safari Technology Preview](https://developer.apple.com/safari/technology-preview/) installed on your machine. You can point WebdriverIO to that version via:

```ts
    browserName: 'safari technology preview'
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>
