website/docs/DriverBinaries.md, before:

---
id: driverbinaries
title: Driver Binaries
---

To run automation based on the WebDriver protocol you need to have browser drivers set up that translate the automation commands and are able execute them in the browser. The following describes how you can set up each driver individually. You can find a list with all drivers in the [`awesome-selenium`](https://github.com/christian-bromann/awesome-selenium#driver) README.

## Chromedriver

To automate Chrome you can download Chromedriver directly on the [project website](http://chromedriver.chromium.org/downloads) or through the NPM package:

```bash npm2yarn
npm install -g chromedriver
```

You can then start it via:

```sh
chromedriver --port=4444 --verbose
```

## Geckodriver

To automate Firefox download the latest version of `geckodriver` for your environment and unpack it in your project directory:

<Tabs
  defaultValue="curl"
  values={[
    {label: 'Curl', value: 'curl'},
    {label: 'Brew', value: 'brew'},
    {label: 'Windows (64 bit / Chocolatey)', value: 'chocolatey'},
    {label: 'Windows (64 bit / Powershell) DevTools', value: 'powershell'},
  ]
}>
<TabItem value="curl">

Linux:

```sh
curl -L https://github.com/mozilla/geckodriver/releases/download/v0.24.0/geckodriver-v0.24.0-linux64.tar.gz | tar xz
```

MacOS (64 bit):

```sh
curl -L https://github.com/mozilla/geckodriver/releases/download/v0.24.0/geckodriver-v0.24.0-macos.tar.gz | tar xz
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="brew">

```sh
brew install geckodriver
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="chocolatey">

```sh
choco install selenium-gecko-driver
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="powershell">

```sh
# Run as privileged session. Right-click and set 'Run as Administrator'
# Use geckodriver-v0.24.0-win32.zip for 32 bit Windows
$url = "https://github.com/mozilla/geckodriver/releases/download/v0.24.0/geckodriver-v0.24.0-win64.zip"
$output = "geckodriver.zip" # will drop into current directory unless defined otherwise
$unzipped_file = "geckodriver" # will unzip to this folder name

# By default, Powershell uses TLS 1.0 the site security requires TLS 1.2
[Net.ServicePointManager]::SecurityProtocol = [Net.SecurityProtocolType]::Tls12

# Downloads Geckodriver
Invoke-WebRequest -Uri $url -OutFile $output

# Unzip Geckodriver
Expand-Archive $output -DestinationPath $unzipped_file
cd $unzipped_file

# Globally Set Geckodriver to PATH
[System.Environment]::SetEnvironmentVariable("PATH", "$Env:Path;$pwd\geckodriver.exe", [System.EnvironmentVariableTarget]::Machine)
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

**Note:** Other `geckodriver` releases are available [here](https://github.com/mozilla/geckodriver/releases). After download you can start the driver via:

```sh
/path/to/binary/geckodriver --port 4444
```

## Edgedriver

You can download the driver for Microsoft Edge on the [project website](https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/tools/webdriver/). After download you can start Edgedriver as follows:

```sh
./path/to/edgedriver --port=4444 --verbose
```

## Safaridriver

Safaridriver comes pre-installed on your MacOS and can be started directly via:

```sh
safaridriver -p 4444
```

Commit message:

(feat): Enable mobile set-up through appium-installer (#10288)
* (feat): enable mobile set-up through appium-installer

* add docs how to set-up Appium

* fix questionaire

website/docs/DriverBinaries.md, after:

---
id: driverbinaries
title: Driver Binaries
---

To run automation based on the WebDriver protocol you need to have browser drivers set up that translate the automation commands and are able execute them in the browser. The following describes how you can set up each driver individually. You can find a list with all drivers in the [`awesome-selenium`](https://github.com/christian-bromann/awesome-selenium#driver) README.

:::tip

If you are looking to set up mobile and other UI platforms, have a look into our [Appium Setup](appium) guide.

:::

## Chromedriver

To automate Chrome you can download Chromedriver directly on the [project website](http://chromedriver.chromium.org/downloads) or through the NPM package:

```bash npm2yarn
npm install -g chromedriver
```

You can then start it via:

```sh
chromedriver --port=4444 --verbose
```

## Geckodriver

To automate Firefox download the latest version of `geckodriver` for your environment and unpack it in your project directory:

<Tabs
  defaultValue="curl"
  values={[
    {label: 'Curl', value: 'curl'},
    {label: 'Brew', value: 'brew'},
    {label: 'Windows (64 bit / Chocolatey)', value: 'chocolatey'},
    {label: 'Windows (64 bit / Powershell) DevTools', value: 'powershell'},
  ]
}>
<TabItem value="curl">

Linux:

```sh
curl -L https://github.com/mozilla/geckodriver/releases/download/v0.24.0/geckodriver-v0.24.0-linux64.tar.gz | tar xz
```

MacOS (64 bit):

```sh
curl -L https://github.com/mozilla/geckodriver/releases/download/v0.24.0/geckodriver-v0.24.0-macos.tar.gz | tar xz
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="brew">

```sh
brew install geckodriver
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="chocolatey">

```sh
choco install selenium-gecko-driver
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="powershell">

```sh
# Run as privileged session. Right-click and set 'Run as Administrator'
# Use geckodriver-v0.24.0-win32.zip for 32 bit Windows
$url = "https://github.com/mozilla/geckodriver/releases/download/v0.24.0/geckodriver-v0.24.0-win64.zip"
$output = "geckodriver.zip" # will drop into current directory unless defined otherwise
$unzipped_file = "geckodriver" # will unzip to this folder name

# By default, Powershell uses TLS 1.0 the site security requires TLS 1.2
[Net.ServicePointManager]::SecurityProtocol = [Net.SecurityProtocolType]::Tls12

# Downloads Geckodriver
Invoke-WebRequest -Uri $url -OutFile $output

# Unzip Geckodriver
Expand-Archive $output -DestinationPath $unzipped_file
cd $unzipped_file

# Globally Set Geckodriver to PATH
[System.Environment]::SetEnvironmentVariable("PATH", "$Env:Path;$pwd\geckodriver.exe", [System.EnvironmentVariableTarget]::Machine)
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

**Note:** Other `geckodriver` releases are available [here](https://github.com/mozilla/geckodriver/releases). After download you can start the driver via:

```sh
/path/to/binary/geckodriver --port 4444
```

## Edgedriver

You can download the driver for Microsoft Edge on the [project website](https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/tools/webdriver/). After download you can start Edgedriver as follows:

```sh
./path/to/edgedriver --port=4444 --verbose
```

## Safaridriver

Safaridriver comes pre-installed on your MacOS and can be started directly via:

```sh
safaridriver -p 4444
```
