website/docs/SetupTypes.md, before:

---
id: setuptypes
title: Setup Types
---

WebdriverIO can be used for various purposes. It implements the WebDriver protocol API and can run a browser in an automated way. The framework is designed to work in any arbitrary environment and for any kind of task. It is independent from any 3rd party frameworks and only requires Node.js to run.

## Protocol Bindings

For basic interactions with the WebDriver and other automation protocols WebdriverIO uses its own protocol bindings based on the [`webdriver`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/webdriver) NPM package:

<Tabs
  defaultValue="webdriver"
  values={[
    {label: 'WebDriver', value: 'webdriver'},
    {label: 'Chrome DevTools', value: 'devtools'},
  ]
}>
<TabItem value="webdriver">

```js reference useHTTPS
https://github.com/webdriverio/example-recipes/blob/e8b147e88e7a38351b0918b4f7efbd9ae292201d/setup/webdriver.js#L5-L20
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="devtools">

```js reference useHTTPS
https://github.com/webdriverio/example-recipes/blob/e8b147e88e7a38351b0918b4f7efbd9ae292201d/setup/devtools.js#L2-L17
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

All [protocol commands](api/webdriver) return the raw response from the automation driver. The package is very lightweight and there is __no__ smart logic like auto-waits to simplify the interaction with the protocol usage.

The protocol commands applied to the instance depend on the initial session response of the driver. For example if the response indicates that a mobile session was started, the package applies all Appium and Mobile JSON Wire protocol commands to the instance prototype.

You can run the same set of commands (except mobile ones) using the Chrome DevTools protocol when importing the [`devtools`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/devtools) NPM package. It has the same interface as the `webdriver` package but runs its automation based on [Puppeteer](https://pptr.dev/).

For more information on these package interfaces, see [Modules API](/docs/api/modules).

## Standalone Mode

To simplify the interaction with the WebDriver protocol the `webdriverio` package implements a variety of commands on top of the protocol (e.g. the [`dragAndDrop`](api/element/dragAndDrop) command) and core concepts such as [smart selectors](selectors) or [auto-waits](autowait). The example from above can be simplified like this:

```js reference useHTTPS
https://github.com/webdriverio/example-recipes/blob/e8b147e88e7a38351b0918b4f7efbd9ae292201d/setup/standalone.js#L2-L19
```

Using WebdriverIO in standalone mode still gives you access to all protocol commands but provides a super set of additional commands that provide a higher level interaction with the browser. It allows you to integrate this automation tool in your own (test) project to create a new automation library. Popular examples include [Spectron](https://www.electronjs.org/spectron) or [CodeceptJS](http://codecept.io). You can also write plain Node scripts to scrape the web for content (or anything else that requires a running browser).

If no specific options are set WebdriverIO will try to find a browser driver on `http://localhost:4444/` and automatically switches to the Chrome DevTools protocol and Puppeteer as automation engine if such a driver can't be found. If you like to run based on WebDriver you need to either start that driver manually or through a script or [NPM package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/chromedriver).

For more information on the `webdriverio` package interfaces, see [Modules API](/docs/api/modules).

## The WDIO Testrunner

The main purpose of WebdriverIO, though, is end-to-end testing on a big scale. We therefore implemented a test runner that helps you to build a reliable test suite that is easy to read and maintain.

The test runner takes care of many problems that are common when working with plain automation libraries. For one, it organizes your test runs and splits up test specs so your tests can be executed with maximum concurrency. It also handles session management and provides lots of features to help you to debug problems and find errors in your tests.

Here is the same example from above, written as a test spec and executed by WDIO:

```js reference useHTTPS
https://github.com/webdriverio/example-recipes/blob/e8b147e88e7a38351b0918b4f7efbd9ae292201d/setup/testrunner.js
```

The test runner is an abstraction of popular test frameworks like Mocha, Jasmine, or Cucumber. To run your tests using the WDIO test runner, check out the [Getting Started](gettingstarted) section for more information.

For more information on the `@wdio/cli` testrunner package interface, see [Modules API](/docs/api/modules).

Commit message:

(webdriverio): manage browser drivers (#10767)
* (webdriverio): manage browser drivers

* finish driver setup

* add unit tests

* make it work

* allow to run STP

* document new driver option capabilities

* get rid of drivers in docs and elsewhere

* update unit tests

* add missing deps back

* add launcher tests to all pipelines

* fix smoke tests

* cleanups

* fix component tests

* fix unit test

* update test coverage treshold

* add blog post

* fix chrome download process

* fix test

* add deprecation notice

* remove log statement in test

* make fetching Chrome version Windows compatible

* disable test

* fix labeling

* store driver logs

* connect to debuggerAddress at 0.0.0.0

* fix unit test

* limit maxInstances

* skip async iterator test

website/docs/SetupTypes.md, after:

---
id: setuptypes
title: Setup Types
---

WebdriverIO can be used for various purposes. It implements the WebDriver protocol API and can run a browser in an automated way. The framework is designed to work in any arbitrary environment and for any kind of task. It is independent from any 3rd party frameworks and only requires Node.js to run.

## Protocol Bindings

For basic interactions with the WebDriver and other automation protocols WebdriverIO uses its own protocol bindings based on the [`webdriver`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/webdriver) NPM package:

<Tabs
  defaultValue="webdriver"
  values={[
    {label: 'WebDriver', value: 'webdriver'},
    {label: 'Chrome DevTools', value: 'devtools'},
  ]
}>
<TabItem value="webdriver">

```js reference useHTTPS
https://github.com/webdriverio/example-recipes/blob/e8b147e88e7a38351b0918b4f7efbd9ae292201d/setup/webdriver.js#L5-L20
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="devtools">

```js reference useHTTPS
https://github.com/webdriverio/example-recipes/blob/e8b147e88e7a38351b0918b4f7efbd9ae292201d/setup/devtools.js#L2-L17
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

All [protocol commands](api/webdriver) return the raw response from the automation driver. The package is very lightweight and there is __no__ smart logic like auto-waits to simplify the interaction with the protocol usage.

The protocol commands applied to the instance depend on the initial session response of the driver. For example if the response indicates that a mobile session was started, the package applies all Appium and Mobile JSON Wire protocol commands to the instance prototype.

You can run the same set of commands (except mobile ones) using the Chrome DevTools protocol when importing the [`devtools`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/devtools) NPM package. It has the same interface as the `webdriver` package but runs its automation based on [Puppeteer](https://pptr.dev/).

For more information on these package interfaces, see [Modules API](/docs/api/modules).

## Standalone Mode

To simplify the interaction with the WebDriver protocol the `webdriverio` package implements a variety of commands on top of the protocol (e.g. the [`dragAndDrop`](api/element/dragAndDrop) command) and core concepts such as [smart selectors](selectors) or [auto-waits](autowait). The example from above can be simplified like this:

```js reference useHTTPS
https://github.com/webdriverio/example-recipes/blob/e8b147e88e7a38351b0918b4f7efbd9ae292201d/setup/standalone.js#L2-L19
```

Using WebdriverIO in standalone mode still gives you access to all protocol commands but provides a super set of additional commands that provide a higher level interaction with the browser. It allows you to integrate this automation tool in your own (test) project to create a new automation library. Popular examples include [Spectron](https://www.electronjs.org/spectron) or [CodeceptJS](http://codecept.io). You can also write plain Node scripts to scrape the web for content (or anything else that requires a running browser).

If no specific options are set WebdriverIO will always attempt to download at setup the browser driver that matches `browserName` property in your capabilities. In case of Chrome it might also install [Chrome for Testing](https://developer.chrome.com/blog/chrome-for-testing/) depending on whether it can find a browser on the machine.

For more information on the `webdriverio` package interfaces, see [Modules API](/docs/api/modules).

## The WDIO Testrunner

The main purpose of WebdriverIO, though, is end-to-end testing on a big scale. We therefore implemented a test runner that helps you to build a reliable test suite that is easy to read and maintain.

The test runner takes care of many problems that are common when working with plain automation libraries. For one, it organizes your test runs and splits up test specs so your tests can be executed with maximum concurrency. It also handles session management and provides lots of features to help you to debug problems and find errors in your tests.

Here is the same example from above, written as a test spec and executed by WDIO:

```js reference useHTTPS
https://github.com/webdriverio/example-recipes/blob/e8b147e88e7a38351b0918b4f7efbd9ae292201d/setup/testrunner.js
```

The test runner is an abstraction of popular test frameworks like Mocha, Jasmine, or Cucumber. To run your tests using the WDIO test runner, check out the [Getting Started](gettingstarted) section for more information.

For more information on the `@wdio/cli` testrunner package interface, see [Modules API](/docs/api/modules).
